Openmc mesh generator (#1365)
neams-th-coe/cardinal: doc/content/source/meshgenerators/OpenMCMeshGenerator.md

# OpenMCMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/OpenMCMeshGenerator

## Description

This mesh generator is used to create a mirror mesh from a regular mesh loaded with OpenMC at runtime.

The OpenMC mesh used by `OpenMCMeshGenerator` is identified via the `mesh_id` parameter
and must correspond to the valid ID number of a regular mesh in the OpenMC model. The path to the
folder containing the OpenMC model can be declared using the `xml_directory` parameter.

`OpenMCMeshGenerator` retrieves the coordinates of the lower left and upper right corners of the OpenMC

> regular mesh and scales them down according to a user-defined scaling factor (defaulting to 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regular mesh and divides them by a user-defined scaling factor (defaulting to 1)
```

declared via the `scaling` parameter. The number of cells in the mesh in each dimension is also directly
retrieved from OpenMC.

!alert! note title=OpenMC initialization

`OpenMCMeshGenerator` depends on an initialized state of OpenMC obtained from an `OpenMCInitAction`.

When multiple objects that depend on `OpenMCInitAction` are declared, if values for the `xml_directory`
parameter are not identical, an error is raised as OpenMC can only be initialized with one model at a
time.

!alert-end!

## Example

Here is an example showing how to set up an `OpenMCMeshGenerator` from a regular mesh declared with
an ID of 1 in the OpenMC model:

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/openmc_mesh_generator/openmc_mesh_only.i

In this example, a scaling factor of 10 is used. This means that the dimensions retrieved from OpenMC

> will be divided by 10 to construct the mesh on the Cardinal side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be divided by 10 to construct the mesh on the Cardinal side (since OpenMC always uses units of centimeters, this means that the Cardinal mesh would have units of decimeters).
```

> 

Reviewer: For the `scaling` parameter, I'm wondering if this needs to exist at all in this object? `OpenMCCellAverageProblem` also has a `scaling` parameter, which it uses to adjust the `[Mesh]` block (through a division). I think the current design in this PR would double-count this because the `[Mesh]` would be re-scaled into, e.g. meters, but then the `[Problem]` class would also do its own scaling, to units of hectometers?

Author: I will need additional testing to make sure I understand it correctly. I'll answer back when I have more elements!

Reviewer: A quick first check is to look at the mesh generated without the `--mesh-only` flag (i.e. as the result of a simulation), when `scaling` /= 1 is used. Does `scaling` get applied 2x?

Author: I added 3 test cases verifying that the scaling factors of `OpenMCMeshGenerator` and `OpenMCCellAverageProblem` work together consistently. In `OpenMCMeshGenerator`, the scaling factor is used to divide the coordinates retrieved from OpenMC to create a MOOSE mesh. From what I understand with the scaling factor from `OpenMCCellAverageProblem`, Cardinal applies the scaling factor (by multiplying) to the MOOSE mesh coordinates to evaluate the OpenMC cell that corresponds to the center of MOOSE mesh cells during mapping.

# OpenMCMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/OpenMCMeshGenerator

## Description

> This mesh generator is used to create a mirror mesh from a regular mesh loaded with OpenMC at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mesh generator is used to create a mirror mesh from a [regular mesh in OpenMC](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/pythonapi/generated/openmc.RegularMesh.html) loaded at runtime.
```
